---
micropython_type: "101"
featured: micropython-101
title: 'Introduction to MicroPython'
description: 'Learn about the Arduino platform'
---

***This page is an introduction to MicroPython with Arduino. If you are already familiar with MicroPython, we recommend skipping to the next page.***

MicroPython is an implementation of the popular Python programming language, with a target for microcontrollers (hence the "micro").

Python has become one of the most popular languages worldwide, with one of its key characteristics is the softer learning curve. This makes it suitable for beginners that have little to no experience in writing text-based code. 

## The MicroPython Environment

MicroPython includes the standard Python API, but also a series of modules that is hardware specific. After you have installed it in your board, commands written in Python that you send to the board will be executed directly. 

This is quite different from the "standard" Arduino (C++) way of programming, where you compile your code before sending it to your board. The MicroPython way allows you to change the program instantly. 

Using MicroPython, we don't write sketches, we write **scripts**. A script can be written in a [MicroPython compatible editor]() which can then be saved on the board. To send a script, you need to have the board connected to your computer.

Since MicroPython effectively implents a filesystem, you can access this similar to how you access a USB drive. 

## Main & Boot Files

There are two files that are important to consider in the MicroPython environment:
- `boot.py` - a script that will run as the board starts (with other words, *boots*).
- `main.py` - a script that will run immediately after `main.py`.

You can consider `main.py` file to be your "main" script as it will execute any time after the board boots.

## Setup and Loop?

If you are familiar with Arduino, you might recognize these following functions:
- `void setup()` - a function that only executes once, when the board is powered.
- `void loop()` - a function that loops forever, or until the board is powered or the program crashes.

These functions does not exist when using MicroPython. The script that you load will be executed from top to bottom, and then it is finished.

To make a program loop continuously, you will need to use a different approach, a **while loop** inside your script.

```python
while(True):
    # code placed here will execute over and over again
    # in a similar fashion to the void loop() function
```

## MicroPython API

Learning how to make MicroPython scripts that runs on your board boils down to three main elements:
- **Learning the Python syntax:** before starting with MicroPython, it is a good idea to take a crash course in Python, as this will help you understand how a Python script works, and what syntax to use. 
- **Learning generic MicroPython:** MicroPython has a series of built-in modules that can be accessed on any board. An example is the `machine` module which is a MicroPython module specific to the board you are using.

