---
title: random()
categories: "Functions"
subCategories: "Random Numbers"
---

**Description**

The random function generates pseudo-random numbers.

**Syntax**

`random(max)`
`random(min, max)`

**Parameters**

`min`: lower bound of the random value, inclusive (optional).
`max`: upper bound of the random value, exclusive.

**Returns**

A random number between min and max-1. Data type: `long`.

**Example Code**

The code generates random numbers and displays them.

    long randNumber;

    void setup() {
      Serial.begin(9600);

      // if analog input pin 0 is unconnected, random analog
      // noise will cause the call to randomSeed() to generate
      // different seed numbers each time the sketch runs.
      // randomSeed() will then shuffle the random function.
      randomSeed(analogRead(0));
    }

    void loop() {
      // print a random number from 0 to 299
      randNumber = random(300);
      Serial.println(randNumber);

      // print a random number from 10 to 19
      randNumber = random(10, 20);
      Serial.println(randNumber);

      delay(50);
    }

**Notes and Warnings**

If it is important for a sequence of values generated by `random()` to
differ, on subsequent executions of a sketch, use `randomSeed()` to
initialize the random number generator with a fairly random input, such
as `analogRead()` on an unconnected pin.

Conversely, it can occasionally be useful to use pseudo-random sequences
that repeat exactly. This can be accomplished by calling `randomSeed()`
with a fixed number, before starting the random sequence.

The `max` parameter should be chosen according to the data type of the
variable in which the value is stored. In any case, the absolute maximum
is bound to the `long` nature of the value generated (32 bit -
2,147,483,647). Setting `max` to a higher value won’t generate an error
during compilation, but during sketch execution the numbers generated
will not be as expected.

**See also**

